Our project “Fourier Illustrator” is a mathematics-based application that helps users understand how Fourier Series work through the use of adjustable hands-on simulations similar ones used in schools such as “PhET”. The main idea behind our application is to use epicycles as an intuitive way to represent the sine and cosine waves which make up any Fourier Series, allowing users to clearly see how the sum of simple waves of different frequencies and amplitudes can make up any complex periodic function.

In order to use our application, one must simply run the “Main.java” file. On the menu screen, the user is given the option to choose between “Drawing Mode” and “Epicycle Mode”. Once they have chosen an option, the user is presented with a large white box in the middle of their screen and controls which change depending on the mode. Additionally, the user can change modes at any time using the “Change Modes” button at the top of their screen.

For the drawing mode, the user is able to drag their mouse across the white box to draw figures which are then converted into epicycles using a Fourier Transform by analyzing the figure drawn by the user as a periodic function made up of multiple points. The user can then manipulate the epicycles using the controls, such as hiding the epicycles, changing their drawing speed, stroke color, stroke width and stroke opacity, and can pause, play or reset the drawing at any time. Additionally, the user can edit the accuracy of the epicycles by changing the point density using a slider at the bottom of the screen. This slider changes the number of points being plotted per second when the user is drawing in the box, which changes the number of epicycles that are used, and in-turn changes the accuracy of the drawing. 

For the epicycle mode, the user is able to get to the root of the Fourier Series process by adding and removing their own epicycles to the white box and adjusting their parameters to visualize how a sum of epicycles can represent any periodic function. Similar to the drawing mode, the user can manipulate the epicycles using controls and can even use a drop-down menu to select which specific epicycle they want to edit. Additionally, the user can create new tabs, allowing them to draw new images without needing to delete their old ones. This mode is fundamentally imperative to our project as it allows the user to understand how impressive the Fourier Transform is that it can take any drawing and turn it into a sum of epicycles, no matter the intricacy. 

Throughout the development of this project, both team members contributed equally. Our plan was to split the work into two categories: 

- (Model) Fourier Transform logic, Epicycles, etc. (Dante Walden)

- (View) and (Controller) JavaFX GUI and implementation of Fourier Transform logic (Aristotle Provatas)

The Fourier Transform logic was an essential part of our project, since everything else would build off of it. This meant that whoever took this role needed to complete their part quickly, but also effectively in order to allow for the implementation to begin and go smoothly. Dante Walden volunteered to take on this challenge and spent weeks figuring out the logistics and creating the classes which would become the backbone of our project. Although his number of commits may not seem numerous, his contribution to the project was unequivocally indispensable to its development. Not only did he finish his part swiftly, allowing the rest of the development process to begin with an abundance of time, he made sure that the logic was faultless.

The JavaFX GUI and implementation of the Fourier Transform logic started immediately after the logic was completed, but took a lot of time to complete. Aristotle Provatas took on this role and began by creating all of the methods and controls that would be necessary for the implementation of the Fourier Transform logic. The creation of this so-called "exoskeleton" was imperative to the project's development as it would facilitate the  complicated, yet crucial implementation of the logic. After creating all of the methods and controls with their respective implementation comments, Aristotle linked them through Scene Builder. Finally, the most demanding part of this role was the implementation of the logic, along with the creation of the GUI. This part took a long time and it represents the bulk of the commits on the GitHub page. It took a lot of work to make sure everything ran smoothly the way we wanted it to, and the JavaFX GUI was something neither of us had ever had prior experience with, so it took a lot of time to learn all of the different controls that were available to us and how to implement them.